# 11-10-2025 #


# Notes #

Difference in culture between conceptual understanding:
- Ensure that Omosalewa fully understands how to operate the device

Why is 300 N range needed?
- Discuss with Charles: 
    - Does the area matter to produce the changes in the keel bone which are observed?
- Amount of force necessary to produce changes in the keel bone could be very high.

- Ask about relationship between force -> area

- Sensors need to be ranged

Discuss with Professor Karcher:
- Birds will generate waste, would it interfere with the devices?
- Ask Professor Karcher what amount of time birds could be spending near antennas that we install:
    - Strategically place antennas every couple meters in chicken coup
    - 1/2 Meter is our goal, 75% of the time we want them in between these antennas
    - If we can achieve this, then wireless charging may be feasible

- How obstrusive the antennas might be
- What we would need to do with the antennas in order for them not to be damaged
- Ask about the backpacks


Resistive sensors:
Easier to work with because there is just a change in resistance:

    - Pros
        - Ease of reading data: 
        - Ex. (Max change in resistance 50%, 10 ohms -> 15 ohms)
        - Don't need a very complicated circuit to read force
        - Voltage Divider allows us to read change in voltage

    - Cons
        - slow response time (unsure how quickly changes need to be recorded)\
        - Ex. (50 Hz Sampling on charge amplifier) <-> Similar response time on resistive sensor
        - How much change in resistance is going to be anticipated?
        - Change in resistance is very small (# bits to read change in resistance was not sufficient)

    - 5 N, 10 N, 50 N, 500 N (Ranges)

Capacitive Sensors:
Should be able to use charge amplifier to measure force

Pros:
    - Very precise response time 
Cons:
    - Need RLC Meter in Lab and more advanced circuitry



Ask Vijay Gupta if I could have some thesis-like document, longer than semester like project.
- Deeper understand of the problem
- Longer term commitment.

One we start collecting bird data, it will be a crucial component of that paper
- Document showcasing what I did across the entire project.

